# CS-255-System-Analysis-and-Design


The client for this project was a small business that sought to expand the functionality of their current system by bringing their services online in a new cloud-based system. DriverPass provides educational resources to help its customers pass their license exam. The new system would consist of multiple web pages, a dedicated server from a cloud provider, and a separate database. They requested that the new system allow their customers to purchase driving packages, schedule appointments for in-person driver lessons, and access online classes including practice tests. Additional functionality was requested to allow the secretary to provide customer service related task, generate a report and schedule for the manager, and grant the IT Officer administrative capabilities.  

I think that this project show cases the creative and thorough approach I am constantly working to build on. I believe there is an equal importance for capturing all of the important needs of the client and being able to communicate the design in a creative and articulate way. I feel that I captured the logic in my diagrams well and made them appropriate for audiences with different technical backgrounds. If I could choose to do one part of my work on these documents to revise, I would pick the class diagram and add the methods associated with each class. The assignment only required attributes and time was a significant constraint. Adding these extra parts to the diagram would improve this document by providing valuable insight into the functionality of each class within the to-be system and how data is transformed.

By analyzing the communication between the client and our team, I was able to identify the different users of the to-be system and assess the processes that each type of user would need to be able to execute. The needs were interpreted based on the dialogue with DriverPass  and translated into a business requirements document and model short application paper. Use case, sequence, activity, and class diagrams were then used to implement the needs into the system design. It is important to consider the user’s needs when designing to prevent redundant and possibly costly work. A system’s worth based on its ability to provide for the needs of its users. 

I approach designing software by systematically evaluating the client’s needs and creating meaningful documentation to facilitate development. I think it is important to consider the role that communication plays in system design and how successful a system is. In the future, I would use an agile approach to analyze and design the system. An iterative process that allows changes to be made to the design can help capture the needs of the client that they did not initially anticipate or communicate. Cycles of analysis and design are only feasible if time is not a constraint and the budget allows. I think that the results of this extra work would manifest into a high quality end product. 
